# ICSI 409 CYK Algorithm Implementation
Wolfgang Neal, Alex Bailey, Collin Smith, Ishtyaq Khan, Jack Arevalo


## Description
This script creates a context-free grammar from a text file and uses it to
perform CYK on strings input by the user. The name for this file can be
provided using '-f' or '--file' when running the script, otherwise the user
will be prompted for it. The program will exit if the file is not found.

## Table of Contents
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [How it works?](#how-it-works)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Requirements
- Python

## Installation
In order to setup the project, you can copy the URL from the github repository and
clone the repository, using the VCS from your IDE. Once the project files are loaded into the IDE the script can be run in the following ways through -

-   ```python cyk.py```
    Program will ask you for the name of the file containing CFG rules. If the file or the rules is invalid, the program will exit. 
-   ```python cyk.py -f <file>```
    Replace `<file>` with the name of the text file containing the context-free grammar.
    If an invalid rule-set is in the file the program will throw a CFGFormatError.
-   ```python cyk.py -f <file> -t <testFile>```
    Replace `<file>` with the name of the text file containing the context-free grammar. Replace `<testFile>` with file containing testable strings.

Enter strings to test against the CFG. Repeat testing or exit the program using the test files that are provided in the folder.

## How it works?

### CFG Rule Set
Each line in the file must be of the form "A -> BC", "S -> epsilon", or
"A -> a", where 'A', 'B', and 'C' are variables, 'S' is the axiom, and 'a' is
a terminal. Optionally, two or more rules with the same left-hand side can be
combined into one line using the form "A -> BC | a".

A variable that appears on the right-hand side of a rule must also be
defined on the left-hand side of at least one rule. The first variable
to be defined is assumed to be the axiom of the CFG. If any rule in the file
is formatted incorrectly, the program will exit.

### 'file' - CFG Rule Set file
- Each line is a rule.

### 'testFile' - Test Strings for CFGs [Optional]
- Each line is a string that will be tested. If this is used then the program will close after all strings are tested

Once the CFG is created, the user will be prompted to enter a string.
CYK will be performed on this string, and the result will be displayed.
This will repeat indefinitely until the program is terminated.

This file can also be imported as a module to gain access to the CFG class for
testing whether strings can be generated by a context-free grammar, along with
the CFGFormatError exception, raised when attempting to create a CFG from an
invalid list of rules.

## Contributing
- 1 person will be doing the questions by hand (Alex)
- 2 people will be making the algorithm to solve the questions in the code (Wolfgang and Ishtyaq)
- 2 people will be testing the code and doing documenting (Collin and Jack)
